student on campus, you kind of learn the organizations and then you just go join them.
Is there a predominantly Jewish fraternity?
There is not, but there is supposedly an interest group that is forming that are wanting to start up, I've been told, a Jewish fraternity, whether it's going to be an IFC fraternity or if it's going to be a multicultural fraternity.
I'm not sure, but I know there is a
Technically there is, but it's not recognized by the university as a true fraternity yet, Greek fraternity.
In general, describe the A&M student body.
What kind of families do they come from geographically, attitudinally?
It's a good mix, I think.
Of course, I've heard a lot of the issue being raised this year of A&M not being as diverse as it should be.
Racially, sure, it's probably not.
I mean, it's a very, very dominantly white university.
But still, I mean, it's an accepting university to, I mean, all race, religions, and that kind of thing.
But for the most part, your typical...
Joe Aggie comes from either a rural family that came from a smaller town, a farming family, a ranching family from a smaller town in Texas, comes in and goes to school here and sees College Station as a big city.
Or you get more of your Houston, Dallas, Austin, San Antonio folks that come from the big city and come to College Station and see it as a small town.
So you get a good mix of those two.
And it's kind of interesting.
Most of the people that come from the big city go more toward the business, not the agricultural degrees.
And a lot of the smaller town go more towards agricultural degree.
But there is a good mix of people coming from
bigger towns wanting to go more into ag and wanting to do that kind of work.
And then smaller town people saying, you know, I want to go in the big city when I grow up.
Is there a healthy blending?
There's a great blending.
I mean, once you're here, you're family, of course.
I've met a lot of friends that are from smaller towns.
You go visit them and kind of experience the smaller town mentality.
And then they go see the big city and kind of share experiences with that.
But I mean, the people really aren't that different at all.
But there's a very, very good blending.
In terms of majors, are there, supposedly according to most students, are there some easy majors?
What are the Crip courses, the Crip?
The easy majors, as far as,
Man, I'd say journalism has been in the past one of the, if you don't get into business school or whatever, you just need to get your degree and move on to grad school, you go to journalism.
I think they're trying to change that big time now, make it a little bit more difficult to get into.
Business is the more popular one, but it's probably the toughest to get into and the toughest to go through.
I mean, I haven't had that hard of a time with geography, but it is a very, very, very small major.
But as far as just easy majors, I don't know.
I don't think there's a real easy major on campus.
Are there any grade point courses?
Oh, there are many of those.
One of them that it's always full.
Most of the athletes take it.
It's a floral design.
Floral design.
They take it.
Most of the girls that want to get into that class are actually wanting to get into that class to learn floral design, and they can't get into it because either the athletes or the people, the guys that want to take it to get the easy A, they take it just to get their A and bump the grade point up.
I'm trying to think of some other easy courses that people take.
There's another one that I don't know if they're offering anymore.
I think the professor left, but there was the poultry science course, but it's listed under poultry science, but it's human sexuality.
A lot of people take that for the fun of it.
You get a good grade in that.
Some of the RPTS, Recreational Park and Tourism Science major, those classes, there's a couple of those, like Outdoor Leisure, those kind of courses are kind of fun that are always recommended is take that course.
It's a pretty easy course, but there's...
Which organizations on the campus do you think the students most respect?
MSC leadership, student government, the band, SCONA, what?
For the most part, I think that the main leadership positions that people respect the most, of course, are the student body president, the Yale leaders,
definitely a lot of the leadership within student government.
It's a mixed kind of feeling about the Student Senate just because.
Now you didn't include corps commander.
Oh, I haven't gotten there yet.
Definitely Corps Commander.
And I kind of would like to think that more of the Greek leadership is also being more looked at in a respectable manner.
It's a lot of the positions that serve on the Student Leadership Advisory Board on campus.
There are some of the
the minority leadership positions within the MSC, the MSC president, and definitely the IFC and the Panhellenic president are the two more acclaimed positions within the Greek community.
But like I said, the Siobadi president, definitely core commander.
The band, not as much.
It's not as well, I guess, publicized throughout campus.
But definitely corps commander, corps staff.
How long will it be before a female runs for Yale leader?
Well, they have in the past.
I remember going into my sophomore year, there was a female running for Yale leader, and it was a very mixed... I mean, it's not that much of a rarity when a... I mean, it's a very common thing when a non-reg runs, but when they get it, it's...
When there's several non-regs doing Yale leader, I mean, that's almost a rarity, just because it's mostly core, but especially when a female, and it was a female non-reg running, that was, whoa.
I mean, everybody was like, hold on here.
And I don't think she received that many votes.
She was not well perceived in that role.
So if a woman does succeed in running for Yale, and in being elected Yale leader, she'd better be in the core?
No, I don't think so, but it was just the shock of having not only a woman running, but just kind of a non-reg.
It was kind of surprising.
But, I mean, no, I don't know how they would be perceived.
I think it would be very, very, very tough for whoever that girl is that gets, if ever it happens, gets a yellow leader position just because...
A yell leader is a male at Texas A&M.
I mean, it's not a cheerleader.
It's a yell leader.
It's a guy.
I think a lot of the good old Ags, the old Army Ags, are really going to have a tough time with that.
I mean, I know my dad, man, he might have a heart attack if he ever sees that.
And I think, especially nowadays, I do think it's going to be very, very tough for a girl to get that position just because it's basically a position for a guy on campus.
It's just the mentality of it.
When you and your buddies are getting dates, how often do y'all get a date with a non-A&M student?
Funny you ask that.
Actually, right now I am dating a non-A&M student.
It depends.
Mostly it's just from connections that you have, friends from high school or girls that you meet just through friends that go to other universities, people you meet at home.
No longer any connection with TWU.
In the olden days, you know, they would... Right.
But nothing like that anymore.
Nothing like that anymore.
I know quite a few Aggies that do date girls that go to Baylor just because it's only an hour and a half away.
The girl that I'm dating right now, she goes to the University of Texas.
So it's a good, healthy rivalry there.
But, I mean, it's only an hour and a half, hour 45 away.
So it's not that bad.
Are the big, fancy dances still being held?
Within A&M, they still have ring dance and boot dance.
Where are they held?
On campus, ring dance was held at Reed Arena.
I think boot dance is held there as well.
They have it down on the floor.
I have not been, of course, since I'm not.
Boot dance is normally for the Corps.
So I think they hold it at Reed Arena.
I'm not sure on that one, but I know for a fact that ring dance is held.
in Reed Arena.
And so that's a main one.
Most of the dances now that are held that people go to are like the formals of sororities and fraternities.
We've kind of stepped up to the plate on that and taken that, especially the sororities, because that's when a lot of the core guys will be going to dances.
Are those held at the houses?
Those are normally held either somewhere in town at a location in town, just kind of a fun place.
A lot of times it's held out of town.
I've been to a formal out on Lake Conroe.
They've been held in like
Houston, Austin, sometimes in San Antonio to where you just kind of take a weekend and go out there as a big group or sometimes drive back later that night if it's somewhat close.
So it kind of depends.
There's others that are held out at the country clubs here in town that are a lot of fun too.
In student indulgences, what percentage of Aggies smoke?
Wow.
You know, I don't know.
I'd like to see the stats on that.
I'd say quite a few, actually.
Half?
I wouldn't say half.
I'd say maybe a fourth, probably.
I don't know how close to the ballpark I am on that.
What are the favorite cigarette brands?
I have no earthly idea.
And do Aggies smoke cigars?
I do.
There's quite a few Aggies that do smoke cigars, but that's normally more of a special occasion.
How often?
Once a week?
Oh, no.
I think they're more or less kind of like how I am, maybe once or twice a semester.
Just kind of on special occasions.
I always have mine at the end of the exams.
Do you smoke pipes anymore?
Not really at all.
It's a rarity.
Chewing tobacco?
Quite a bit, actually.
I see a lot of guys dip and chew and stuff like that.
Quite a bit.
Quite a bit due to that.
How common are drugs?
Not that common, but it's to the point now where you just kind of have to keep your mind open to that and when you see it, it's not such a shock, but just so you can do something about it.
I think most of the, I guess, the more hardcore drugs really aren't that big of a problem here.
I'm sure they are to a certain extent.
I think any kind of drug here is a problem.
What kind of drugs are most likely to be?
Definitely marijuana.
Anytime that I see it, I don't sit there and judge what other people do in their own time, but to a certain extent, if it's around me, I'm either leaving or asking them to leave.
It's not that big of a problem on campus, but it's still pretty prevalent.
As far as you know, where do they obtain it?
I guess I'm ignorant enough.
I really don't know.
Just through other people, other students that obtain it.
But as far as where the originator comes, I have no idea.
And drinking, what's the favorite beer?
Man.
Well, my favorite beer is Scheiner Bock.
But I'm not a big drinker at all.
I really did not have my first true drink until I turned 21.
I waited.
I think I probably had two beers before I was 21 just with friends and that was when I was at their house spending the night or whatever when I was
a couple months away from being 21 or had a glass of wine with mom and dad at a nice steakhouse but as far as the
Especially within the fraternity system, of course, it's been a social environment, so there's quite a bit of alcohol there.
Normally at parties, you'll see the Miller Lite, the Bud Lite, the Coors Lite, that kind of stuff, but I'm not that big of a fan of that kind of thing, but when you go out to the bars and stuff, when people get pictures and that kind of stuff, they'll get a picture of Coors Lite or a picture of Miller Lite.
Are you aware that secret fraternities exist here?
Actually, I am aware that they do.
As far as you know, how many are there?
Just within the fraternity system, no.
No, no, no, no, no.
But within just the whole general scheme of things, I think there's probably a couple that I'm just hearsay, but I don't know how reliable that's worth.
Have you heard their names, the names of the organizations?
No.
One of the names I have heard of is Snickers.
Stickers.
Stickers, there we go.
I have heard about that one, and that's been around for a long, long time.
How long do you think?
I'd say definitely since at least the late 1800s, early 1900s.
And the original title was the swastikers.
Swastikers, okay.
And the swastika, long before Adolf Hitler discovered it, was a Navajo good luck.
symbol, and the Hindu also used it as a positive.
Right, right.
And one of the young men who apparently was a member in his days was a fellow named Sterling Evans, class of 21.
Really?
That's interesting to hear.
As far as you know, what is the purpose of the secret fraternities?
Definitely the purpose, because I've kind of done a little bit of research here and there just about the secret fraternities that have been involved with A&M.
The main purpose, I think, behind it is to
kind of be the under workings of the kind of the administration type things on campus to where if things really aren't getting done like they should be, they take care of that and they make sure.
Like I tell people, I think part of it is to get one of their members as the student body president.
Right.
And or the corps commander and so forth.
And I agree with that.
Now I know that
I know that the stickers were a
a form of the machine, which is an actual fraternity within the fraternity system that is completely underground.
And I don't know if they were affiliated with them, but I know they had been on campus at one point up until I think the 60s.
And they were, I think, associated, of course, it was back in the 60s and stuff, it was associated with the Corps of Cadets as well.
So I don't know if they had one or two going at the same time.
But it's kind of interesting to look back on those, definitely.
And I know for sure that they're still on campus.
It's one of those things, you know they're there, you just don't know who's in it.
Let's see, Aggie tradition, silver taps, muster.
Have you been to muster?
Actually, I regretfully have not been yet.
My freshman year, it happened.
Muster, I believe, was held on Good Friday, and I had some family obligations that I had to go back for.
Last year, it was held...
on a Saturday night and I was desperately in the middle of writing a paper and by the time I got a chance to get ready to go to Musher,
It was completely full, and I couldn't get in.
And this year, I was conducting some meetings and stuff.
That afternoon, I was gonna be going to muster, and it was just one of those things.
I had a group going, and everybody wound up backing out.
I hadn't been yet, so I'm definitely making it a priority.
I've seen it on TV.
Of course, that's nothing like what it actually is.
I try to take part in as many agri-traditions as I can, because I know with a fraternity stereotype,
What a lot of people here, of course, say is we're not involved with the traditions.
That's about as opposite as I am.
I try to do everything I can.
That's one thing that I am kind of disappointed with.
You haven't been able to buy a senior ring yet?
No, sir.
I actually got sized for it yesterday.
and i'm ordering it this summer and get it in september what does it cost now it uh they told me the the 10 carat gold ring is 417 dollars and the 14 carat i believe is 520 and it's another couple hundred dollars to put in a diamond in it and so it's a little bit more expensive now where are you going to get the money to pay for that
Mom and dad said that they would, that's one of my gifts of going to A&M that they would provide me with would be they would buy me my Aggie ring for me.
Now have you had a job during your Aggie years?
Just in the summertime.
I've had the privilege of not having to work.
What did you do in the summer?
In between my, well,
Coming into my freshman year that summer and then the summer between my freshman and sophomore year, I worked at a bank back in Dallas, kind of did an internship with them, but I was a teller for two years at Colonial Bank in Dallas.
Towards the end, they were training me in more of the sales and that kind of
Part of the bank so I learned a lot about that banking my grandfather was a banker in Dallas So like it's it's it's been a part of the family So it's just kind of one of the things that I served my time is as a bank teller Most of my family has done that in the past anyway than my mom's side of the family, right?
So that in terms of your spending money
Mom and dad help with that?
No, I mean, that's what I earn in the summer is I budget that throughout the year and try to come away at the end of the year with as much as I can so I can just throw the rest of it into some savings and that kind of thing.
And I save up quite a bit during the summer too just so I'll have some savings.
Leave out your spending money.
In round numbers, what is going to A&M cost a year?
Minus spending money, so especially with meals, that's a necessity.
So I'd say with meals, with just the necessities of just kind of the daily stuff that you have to spend, and even living off campus, the rent utilities and all that stuff.
I think tuition now is about close to $9,000 a year.
plus books, which is a good 500 a semester, plus room and board, while they're on campus, it's I think about 1,500 a semester, somewhere around there, give or take.
12,000?
I'd say pry between, depending on how much you penny pinch, it can be anywhere between 11 and 12, I'm guessing, which is pretty reasonable nowadays.
All right, you haven't been to an A&M commencement yet.
Actually, I have.
I got to go last year.
One of my good friends was graduating from the business school.
Is it important that every name is called and every hand is shaken?
It is.
It really is.
Even though the people sitting out in the crowd may not know that person, it's special to that person being able to shake Dr. Bowen's hand or whoever the university president is at that time and being able to shake all the administrators' hands walking across the stage and at least getting your congratulations, whether they know you or not, it's still very, very important.
We're getting near the end now.
What creates Aggie's spirit?
The people that... It's a combination of, I think, the people that are involved within the A&M community, whether they're a student, faculty, staff member, alumni, or just even sometimes a member of the community around A&M and the Bryan College Station community.
I think it's...
They're definitely what we call the keepers of the spirit.
Definitely the core is as well.
I think they're, I mean, the core of the keeper of the spirit.
But it's that combined with just the rich tradition and history on campus.
What does it take for an individual to be accepted as a member of that spirit group?
do you have to be born rich or you have to be from a certain place it's it's it's just honestly it's your mindset towards that i think um what i mean it's it's you get in you get out of it whatever you put into it basically and uh the more i mean especially here the the little that you put in you get so much out of it so that you want to put more and more and more into it and that's just what builds that that fire
So far, what do you think you have learned at A&M that's going to be important to you in your life?
Definitely, definitely leadership skills.
That has just been so, so invaluable to me since I've been here.
And just a lot of the job skills that I've had.
I do believe that the reason I did get an internship for this next summer in Dallas with a commercial real estate firm
and i do believe the reason that i got that was the training that i've received through the student organizations that i've been in through just the classes that i've taken and the advice that i've been given from from from faculty and staff members here to to former students of just what to do and
different things as far as interviewing, how to conduct yourself, how to build a resume, those kind of skills are, I think, probably the most important thing that I've gotten out of A&M.
And, I mean, they say that you retain a small percentage of the knowledge that you gain from classes here, but it's just the, oh, excuse me, it's the,
I just think it's the organizational and development skills, person development skills that you get from going to class, from studying for finals this week to the responsibilities that you have in whatever you decide to do.
It basically teaches you, and A&M does such a good job with this, teaches you to be an independent person away from your home, away from your family.
If you were a consultant today to NM's leadership decision makers about the future, what would you advise them to do about NM's future?
One of the main things that I've said and I strongly believe in this especially with the academics is making sure I mean A&M truly is a large corporation and it has different branches of the corporation which are the different colleges within the campus and
A truly successful corporation has all the different branches know what all the other branches are doing and how they operate, how they work, the system that they're under.
And if one branch has a problem and needs to maybe send a customer to another branch, they know about that.
And I think to a certain extent, A&M has a little bit of a problem with that, just being as big as they are.
A lot of times the smaller colleges, like especially with myself, I've had some problems with the fact that geography in the geosciences department doesn't really know what the business school is doing or vice versa.
And when a student that is in one college may be getting a minor in another college,
And they're somewhat different minors even though they work well together.
When a student goes to his or her home college and needs advice on doing something in another college, a lot of times it's just the generic answer is go check with that college, see what you can do.
And so you're always having to talk to two different people and always getting two different opinions that a lot of times don't really relate to one another.
And I've thought this, if A&M could definitely form some kind of better committee structure to where
all the colleges and majors are represented to where everybody kind of knows what everybody's doing, form relationships between those to where if say a student's in geography and needs advice doing something within business, they can go to the geography department and the geography department will know what to do or vice versa.
And I think that's something that A&M I think needs to do just a little bit better with, but still they're on the right track.
Would you advise A&M to get bigger or smaller or what?
in student enrollment numbers?
You know, I really don't know.
I don't want to see it get smaller just because with the population growth and the more people that are wanting to come to A&M, the smaller you make it, the more selective it's going to be and the more people that can't come here to experience the true beauty of A&M.
On the other hand, the bigger it gets, the
the harder it is to be a student here just because there's so many things to do and you just don't get to meet everybody but I think just of course with the population growth and just the growth of America and Texas and everything over the next 50, 100, 200 years A&M is probably going to have to grow a little bit more but I just hope that they don't grow too big
for its own good, you know, and so.
Okay, got three more.
Okay.
If you could make a major gift to Texas A&M, let's make believe you've suddenly been, for what purpose would you want that gift used?
Man, that's a great question, something I have never thought about.
You know, first reactions maybe do something cool with the athletic department, but they get so many donations and so much money rolling through there.
I don't think that's a major necessity.
I think right now,
At least with my involvement here, I would make a huge contribution to get the fraternity row.
And there's already a sorority row here, and it works really well.
But I would really push to get a good fraternity row here on campus to where all the fraternities would be there together and kind of unify a little bit more.
I think I would probably do that.
To what A&M students, former students, faculty, staff, advisors, counselors, to whom do you feel most grateful so far about your A&M experiences?
Are there some special people?
There are.
Definitely, I would have to say just all the teachers that I've had so far, for the most part, have been a very valuable asset to me, just teaching me the skills that I've learned.
Definitely the people that are associated with student government and student activities, even within my chapter.
One lady in particular, Kim Novak, who's one of the
the Directors and Student Activities is our chapter advisor and she has been such a great, great tool that I've been able to use and use her advice and help in any way and she's so giving of her time to anybody within our chapter but also any Aggie that needs help from her.
She's willing to do what it takes to help you get into a class that you need to get into or anything like that.
She's been a great, great asset with that.
Even over this past year, I've formed a good relationship with Dr. Sutherland, our Vice President of Student Affairs.
Truthfully, my freshman and sophomore year, I had...
some negative opinions about him just from influences that I've had people telling me why they didn't like him what not so I just had that negative opinion about him just through other people which was very unfair but just the way it was but dealing with him on my own this past year has he really is a truly truly gifted man and somebody that feels very passionately about students at A&M and wants to do everything he can to
to suit every student's need and is there for everybody.
So definitely those kind of people have truly impacted me at A&M and I'm truly grateful for.
Last question.
Okay.
What feelings do you carry in your heart for Texas A&M?
A deep, deep love for this university.
I've always held A&M just a special place in my heart growing up, knowing that dad went here and this is someplace that I always knew, even if I didn't go to A&M, I'd always be a true fan.